.Dd October 9, 2016
.Dt SNDFILE-RESAMPLE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sndfile-resample
.Nd sample rate converter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar number
.Op Fl s Ar ratio
.Fl to Ar rate
.Ar input
.Ar output
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar number
.Op Fl s Ar ratio
.Fl by Ar ratio
.Ar input
.Ar output
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a sample rate converter using libsndfile for file I/O
and Secret Rabbit Code (aka libsamplerate) for performing the conversion.
It works on any file format supported by libsndfile
with any number of channels (limited only by host memory).
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width converter
.It Fl c Ar number
Choose the converter type from the following list:
.Bl -tag -width x -compact
.It 0
Best Sinc Interpolator
.It 1
Medium Sinc Interpolator (default)
.It 2
Fastest Sinc Interpolator
.It 3
ZOH Interpolator
.It 4
Linear Interpolator
.El
.It Fl to Ar rate
Convert to the specified sample
.Ar rate .
.It Fl by Ar ratio
Change the sample rate by the given
.Ar ratio ,
which can be any positive real;
the resulting rate is floored to an integer.
For instance, changing the rate of 44100 by a factor of 1.3333
results in a sample rate of 58798.
.It Fl -no-normalize
Disable clipping check and normalization.
.It Fl s Ar ratio
Specifies a time stretch ratio to apply to the sample data.  This value
can be used to adjust the playback speed of the file, to perform
time-stretching operations.  Values greater than 1.0 increase the time
and decrease the speed.  Values less than 1.0 decrease the time and
increase the speed.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Lk http://www.mega-nerd.com/libsndfile/
.Lk http://www.mega-nerd.com/libsamplerate/
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Erik de Castro Lopo Aq Mt erikd@mega-nerd.com
